And so we have executed hard hat test.
We can see that it's it's passing.
This is fantastic, right?
And let's go down.
So we saw this fantastic.
We tested the method we actually
did get the string out.
We saw that it was working and
just to prove to ourselves that
we're not just making things up.
Let us go over here.
And let us go hello, front end masters and
then rerun our test.
And what we are gonna see is that it now
fails because we were expecting hello
world so we really genuinely
are talking to this contract.
There is no smoke and
mirrors at this point.
We are talking to this contract we have
deployed it we have executed a function on
it but there's probably some
questions about this I think we
kind of answered a lot of the questions
right now is there any specific questions
that we want to go over that someone
has about this process so far.
My question is did it create
like some sort of test network.
>> Yes.
>> How does that work?
>> So did we create a test network?
What just happened there?
Well, good thing it leads into the right
the next thing so what just happened?
What did we actually do there?
Now I have explained some of the things
about how we let's see where are you?
Hello World?
Yes, I didn't add that to that.
There we go.
We didn't like I explained how this works
I explained how these things kind of
work but notice a,
that we now had a function called Hello.
How did we get that generated function
because that's the name of the function
we use on our contract obviously that is
a proxy function uses all the information
that I showed you from here to generate
proxy functions here that actually
communicate with the network.
But on top of that,
where was this network at?
Well, one of the beautiful reasons why
I love Hardhats so much is when you run
a test file it actually will create it
will launch a kind of a private network.
Run your test take down the network.
So you just get this quick a femoral
network that gets destroyed and
or built and destroyed really quickly.
So that way you don't have to worry about
state you don't have to worry about
anything persisting you don't have
to worry about any kind of outside
environmental factors that
will make your test fail?
Because nothing's worse than a test
that relies on some network data.
Because every now and then it breaks.
People are asking you why it turns out,
had nothing to do with you.
So, that is what effectively has
happened here is we are able to
communicate with a network that
existed for a moment and left.
So let's do this again.
But let's instead of writing a test,
let's write a deployment script,
meaning we're gonna actually
deploy this to a network.
Like a real network,
not a fake network, but
like a real network as real as it gets.
So let's go into our route and let's
create a directory called Scripts inside
of scripts let's create a deploy dash
Hello, whatever you want to name it,
just some typescript file
that is comfortable for you.
And then of course, at the top of the
TypeScript file, we put in that same nomic
labs because I just like really nice auto
completion without a bunch of complaining.
Now today we'll probably be putting
in some amount of TS ignores and
if about 50% of the time I do that,
it's actually incorrect and,
Typescripts helping me, but
we'll see what happens here.
All right.
So there we go.
We have our ethers kind of
additional functions added.
So now we just need the import
ethers from Hardhat.
Again just as before and let's create
an async function called Deploy and
inside of here let's deploy
our Hello World contract.
Now I could just copy it from our test but
just because it's really
good to do something a few
times let's just rewrite that.
So first we get the Helloworld contract
equals await ethers get contract factory.
And then the name of your contract, not
the name of the file that it's in the name
of the contract once you've done that,
and make sure you also await it,
because it's reading
something from the disk.
So it's asyc.
Next we actually create
the contract itself by
calling helloworld.deploy and
then we wait for
it to be deployed await hello.deployed.
And once we do that let's just
return the Hellocontract.
There we go.
I haven't put any return types and
all that.
That's for production based code.
We're not doing production
based code here.
So now we're just going to
deploy the Hello World contract.
Let's create a second function
we'll call out say hello,
right and it's going to take
in the Hello World contracts.
And they'll simply go, wait, hello I
could have done this in the first one,
but it's kind of nice
to separate them out.
We'll use it more often.
A wait, hello, hello.
And then of course go console dot log,
say hello.
And then there we go.
Two spaces, one space.
Beautiful.
And then of course at the very bottom,
we're simply gonna go
deploy then say hello.
So, we do each one of those at a time.
Now, notice typescripts kinda
complaining right here.
We're gonna have some implicit anys.
It's just gonna happen from time to time.
I'll leave this up here for a moment so
everyone can get caught up.
But notice we're doing the exact
same thing we did in the test.
We get the contract factory.
It's not a contract itself it just
contains all the information it needs to
deploy it to a network.
We call this convenience
function called deploy.
It's going to build up a JSON request
that it's gonna JSON our RPC there we go.
I was like, wait a second.
It's gonna RPC it over to some network.
That network will then
begin the transaction.
When it's done doing enough
confirmations on that network,
we'll be considered deployed,
we'll return this out, and
then now we'll actually
execute a function on it.
Now, remember the extra function we're
calling right here is the literal function
that is right here.
Is just a proxy via JavaScript where
it does a request out to the network
the network will then execute that
request it will send back the results
we'll get back the results and
boom we're good to go.
In that's like in your head, that's how
you can draw all the boxes and arrows.
Cause that's just the easiest
way to think about it,
is try to relate it to things
you already understand.
It's just like ,any sort of
API you've written before.
All right, so there we go.
So now we should be able to go NPX,
hard hat run scripts.
Deploy then we're gonna go network
local host we're gonna just run
it locally right we're going
to tell it where to run.
So I'll let this sit up for one second
as everyone gets caught up this is very
important if you don't do this,
it's gonna use that ephemeral network.
And this is where you can also replace
the word local host, say with Rank B,
Main Net, any of the other networks that
do exist and you will actually go and
deploy it on there.
But of course, at that point,
you need a theorem on those networks
to be able to deploy stuff.
So for now, we'll just do it to our local
net and when I press enter what happens?
Well of couse it fails because we have
an implicit any that's it my guess
right off the RIP yep okay so
I probably should have you know
probably some TS config to avoid that.
So let's just have a quick TS
ignore I believe that is correct.
And then we can redo this and
then now it should fail properly.
There we go.
We've properly failed this time.
So what happens here it says
cannot connect to the network,
local host so what's going on there.
Well, we get this error.
What is the cloud,
it's just someone else's computer,
you've specified someone else's
computer as your own computer.
So therefore,
we need our own network on this computer.
So let's go apx hard hat node,
it will deploy a Ethereum
network on your local computer
that you will be able to run.
And t has a bunch of accounts already
created for you that each have 10,000 ETH
your rich time to retire and
now you can interact with this network.
So let's open up a new terminal and
re-execute our deployments
script now that we have a node
launched on our local machine.
When we do that, you're gonna
see a couple things happen here.
First, you're gonna see hello front and
masters which is quite fantastic.
But then let me make sure I'm
going in with, okay, good.
I'm going along my pre designed path here.
If we go over to our node we launched,
what you'll see is that there's actually
a couple transactions that happen here.
Right?
The first one is an eth send transaction.
It deploys a contract called hello world.
This is our contract address.
A contract address is no
different than a wallet address.
It's just 20 bytes of data.
You know zero through F.
It says hey here's the transaction
ID here's who sent it.
So who is this person that sent it well
let's just remember these last 42266
let's go all the way up to the top and if
you look at the first account it's 2266.
So they're using the test account
zero to be the one that's paying for
the deployment of SED network.
We'll go back down and then what else can
we grab, hey it was block number one it
was the first thing executed on this
network and then you'll see that we do
something different right here which is
we do an eth call it's not a transaction.
You'll notice that there is no gas used,
there's no block number two,
it simply doesn't eth call it calls out
to hello-world Hello from account zero
to 2 the contract we just deployed aa3
you can see aa three here ,aa three here,
one nice part about using this little
test network is that if you deploy
a contract every first contract that
you deploy has the same address.
Every one of these 20 private accounts
all have the same address because it's
the same network being launched
every single time and so
there is something nice about having those
things just be consistent so you can see
them go okay yeah that's correct that's
what I was expecting it'll be even more
convenient as we get into meta mask and
using things from the browser.
So there we go.
That is what happened.
Does anyone have any questions about
kind of what happened, so far,
because this is a bit more unusual
than your standard development, right?
So we do exactly what we did in the test
world we get our contract factory or
we get a contract factory
from Hello World.
Remember that is the name
of your contract,
not the name of the file
that contains the contract.
We happen to name the same thing,
a bit confusing.
Second, we deploy it.
Third, we wait for it to be deployed,
then we return it,
after that we can call functions on it
that exists on our contract because he, or
a hardhat, or ethers.
I think it's actually ethers does
this They use the contract ABI,
which is inside that contract file that
was generated by Hardhat a uses that to
generate methods on this contract object
that are just effectively proxies for
what is on the chain.
So somehow we haven't kind of gone over
that eths knows how to communicate to
whatever chain we're going to.
So somehow it did know
when were to deploy this,
obviously some of the hints
are when we did our deployment.
We did dash dash network, local host.
So there's some extra information
obviously going on here.
That Hardhat is providing two ethers
that we're currently not providing.
We will have to kind of break
that facade here shortly but for
now it just knows because of Hardhat and
so we're gonna be doing this a bunch so
if you want to convenience function
this out you can now if you use Vim and
it happens to be Neo Vim and you happen
to have one of the sweet plugins I built,
you can extract function you
can call it foo and boom,
look at that I got the bug all taken out,
you can call it async and there it goes.
Look at that look at how that
just wonderfully worked.
Okay, I mean I think it's cool,
you don't have to think it's cool but
I think it's fantastic.
Having almost as good of
tools as IntelliJ almost, and
by almost I mean definitely
not as good of tools as
IntelliJ Uses fun little
plugin called tree sitter,
while we're waiting,
I assume, are we good to go?
Awesome.
All right.
So there we go.
So let's continue on.
So we're gonna go even deeper.
I know we barely I feels like we
haven't explained a lot of things.
We keep on moving on to new things which
is kind of hard to always do something new
over and over again because you feel
like you don't quite understand it.
You probably tell me not to do it.
We got a question,
telling me not to do it.
>> Are those private keys switched
out every time you run Hardhat so
if you relaunch your app on your computer
is it a fresh set of keys each time or.
No it's the same keys every time,
it's the same accounts every time.
That's why you always get the same
contract address if you launch them in
the same order because it's a network
that's fairly predictable it just is
there's no outside influence that network
obviously can't be you know reach for
I'm sure you could make it reach from the
outside but it's just effectively your own
private instance of a network
starting at block zero and so
they just precede it with 20 accounts.
>> So if you have like a really
complicated smart contract does it
cost more guests to execute that.
>> We're gonna actually go over
quite a bit on gas but yes.
This is where at some point I'll make
a small rant about JavaScript and
about poor programming practices that take
place and why it's gonna be very difficult
on Ethereum, if you have that mentality,
we'll get there shortly, but yes,
Gas is extremely expensive and yes,
every last thing you do cost money,
and you'll eventually see why cost so
much money.